README.md, before:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abdfnx/tran/main/.github/assets/logo.svg" height="120px" />
</p>

![computer 1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/64256993/152999023-fbbe04aa-a4b5-449c-b589-27e1169cf851.gif)
![computer 2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/64256993/153002664-9c3db89e-5c71-4555-afa0-3866e37f5339.gif)

> 🖥️ Securely transfer and send anything between computers with TUI.

## Installation

<details>
<summary><strong>ways</strong></summary>

### Using script

* Shell

```
curl -fsSL https://cutt.ly/tran-cli | bash
```

* PowerShell

```
iwr -useb https://cutt.ly/tran-win | iex
```

**then restart your powershell**

### Homebrew

```bash
brew install abdfnx/tap/tran
```

### Go package manager

```bash
go install github.com/abdfnx/tran@latest
```

### GitHub CLI

```bash
gh extension install abdfnx/gh-tran
```
</details>

## Usage

* Open Tran UI

```bash
tran
```

* Open with specific path

```
tran --start-dir $PATH
```

* Send files to a remote computer

```
tran send <FILE || DIRECTORY>
```

* Receive files from a remote computer

```
tran receive <PASSWORD>
```

### Tran Config file

> tran config file is located at `~/.config/tran/tran.yml` | `$HOME/tran.yml`

```yml
config:
  borderless: false
  editor: vim
  enable_mousewheel: true
  show_updates: true
  start_dir: .
```

### Flags

```
--start-dir string   Starting directory for Tran
```

### Shortkeys

* <kbd>tab</kbd>: Switch between boxes
* <kbd>up</kbd>: Move up
* <kbd>down</kbd>: Move down
* <kbd>left</kbd>: Go back a directory
* <kbd>right</kbd>: Read file or enter directory
* <kbd>V</kbd>: View directory
* <kbd>T</kbd>: Go to top
* <kbd>G</kbd>: Go to bottom
* <kbd>~</kbd>: Go to your home directory
* <kbd>/</kbd>: Go to root directory
* <kbd>.</kbd>: Toggle hidden files and directories
* <kbd>D</kbd>: Only show directories
* <kbd>F</kbd>: Only show files
* <kbd>E</kbd>: Edit file
* <kbd>ctrl+s</kbd>: Send files/directories to remote
* <kbd>ctrl+r</kbd>: Receive files/directories from remote
* <kbd>ctrl+f</kbd>: Find files and directories by name
* <kbd>q</kbd>/<kbd>ctrl+q</kbd>: Quit

### Technologies Used in Tran

- [**Charm**](https://charm.sh)
- [**Chroma**](https://github.com/alecthomas/chroma)
- [**Imaging**](https://github.com/disintegration/imaging)
- [**Gorilla Websocket**](https://github.com/gorilla/websocket)
- [**PAKE**](https://github.com/schollz/pake)
- [**Cobra**](https://github.com/spf13/cobra)
- [**GJson**](https://github.com/tidwall/gjson)
- [**Termenv**](https://github.com/muesli/termenv)

### License

tran is licensed under the terms of [MIT](https://github.com/abdfnx/tran/blob/main/LICENSE) license.

Commit message:

add `viper` to `Technologies Used in Tran`, add @ZinoKader as a reference

README.md, after:

<p align="center">
  <img src="https://raw.githubusercontent.com/abdfnx/tran/main/.github/assets/logo.svg" height="120px" />
</p>

![computer 1](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/64256993/152999023-fbbe04aa-a4b5-449c-b589-27e1169cf851.gif)
![computer 2](https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/64256993/153002664-9c3db89e-5c71-4555-afa0-3866e37f5339.gif)

> 🖥️ Securely transfer and send anything between computers with TUI.

## Installation

<details>
<summary><strong>ways</strong></summary>

### Using script

* Shell

```
curl -fsSL https://cutt.ly/tran-cli | bash
```

* PowerShell

```
iwr -useb https://cutt.ly/tran-win | iex
```

**then restart your powershell**

### Homebrew

```bash
brew install abdfnx/tap/tran
```

### Go package manager

```bash
go install github.com/abdfnx/tran@latest
```

### GitHub CLI

```bash
gh extension install abdfnx/gh-tran
```
</details>

## Usage

* Open Tran UI

```bash
tran
```

* Open with specific path

```
tran --start-dir $PATH
```

* Send files to a remote computer

```
tran send <FILE || DIRECTORY>
```

* Receive files from a remote computer

```
tran receive <PASSWORD>
```

### Tran Config file

> tran config file is located at `~/.config/tran/tran.yml` | `$HOME/tran.yml`

```yml
config:
  borderless: false
  editor: vim
  enable_mousewheel: true
  show_updates: true
  start_dir: .
```

### Flags

```
--start-dir string   Starting directory for Tran
```

### Shortkeys

* <kbd>tab</kbd>: Switch between boxes
* <kbd>up</kbd>: Move up
* <kbd>down</kbd>: Move down
* <kbd>left</kbd>: Go back a directory
* <kbd>right</kbd>: Read file or enter directory
* <kbd>V</kbd>: View directory
* <kbd>T</kbd>: Go to top
* <kbd>G</kbd>: Go to bottom
* <kbd>~</kbd>: Go to your home directory
* <kbd>/</kbd>: Go to root directory
* <kbd>.</kbd>: Toggle hidden files and directories
* <kbd>D</kbd>: Only show directories
* <kbd>F</kbd>: Only show files
* <kbd>E</kbd>: Edit file
* <kbd>ctrl+s</kbd>: Send files/directories to remote
* <kbd>ctrl+r</kbd>: Receive files/directories from remote
* <kbd>ctrl+f</kbd>: Find files and directories by name
* <kbd>q</kbd>/<kbd>ctrl+q</kbd>: Quit

### Technologies Used in Tran

- [**Charm**](https://charm.sh)
- [**Chroma**](https://github.com/alecthomas/chroma)
- [**Imaging**](https://github.com/disintegration/imaging)
- [**Gorilla Websocket**](https://github.com/gorilla/websocket)
- [**PAKE**](https://github.com/schollz/pake)
- [**Cobra**](https://github.com/spf13/cobra)
- [**Viper**](https://github.com/spf13/viper)
- [**GJson**](https://github.com/tidwall/gjson)
- [**Termenv**](https://github.com/muesli/termenv)

### Special thanks

thanks to [**@ZinoKader**](https://github.com/ZinoKader) for his awesome repo [`portal`](https://github.com/ZinoKader/portal)

### License

tran is licensed under the terms of [MIT](https://github.com/abdfnx/tran/blob/main/LICENSE) license.
